---
layout: post
title: "English"
---


## Phrases
1. Pouring oil over troubled waters = soothe or calm down someone or something.  
   
   The diplomat was praised for pouring oil on troubled waters during the tense negotiations between the two countries, preventing a potential conflict.
   
2. Throwing caution to the wind = to not behave in a sensible and careful manner.

   Against his financial advisor's warnings, Tom threw caution to the wind and invested all his savings in a high-risk startup.

3. Straw in the wind = a slight hint of the future.

    The prime minister's comments are an interesting straw in the wind that the post-electoral situation may be more uncertain than it currently appears to be.
    
    Origin: This phrase originated from the idea of observing which way straws or light debris are blown by the wind, giving a hint about the wind's direction.

4. Being a spring chicken = being an young person. 
    
    When asked about his ability to keep up with his grand kids, Grandpa chuckled, "I may not be a spring chicken, but I can still hold my own!"

    Origin: The phrase "no spring chicken” refers to someone who is viewed as old. This expression originated from the 1700s when farmers needed to sell their chickens while they were still young. If these chickens did not sell during the spring, they would age through the winter and be significantly less profitable.

5. Like it or lump it = whether you like it or sulk about it, your opinion changes nothing.

    Like it or lump it, that's how the visa system in the USA works.

6. To be too clever by half = to try too hard to be clever in a way that undermines the intended purpose.

    The new marketing campaign was too clever by half, using obscure references that went over most customers' heads.

7. Shotgun wedding = a forced union / a marriage forced or required because of pregnancy

    The coalition government formed after the election was a shotgun wedding, with the parties having little in common but needing to work together to gain a majority.

8. Lovers' tiffs = fleeting, inconsequential argument that is not regarded as a threat to the overall relationship

    For decades, the simmering tensions between the two neighboring countries seemed like little more than a lovers' tiff - petty squabbles over borders and resources that flared up and cooled down periodically.

9. the die is cast = an irreversible decision has been made / a course of action has been set in motion.

    The die is cast in Switzerland and we must be prepared for a de facto end to road transport transit through that country. 

<br>

## Words
1. Segue = (noun) a smooth transition / (verb) to make a smooth transition

    The host used a listener's question as a perfect segue to introduce the next guest on the radio show.

<br>

## Sentences
1. True superpowers fight the day after tomorrow’s battles today, and ideally far from their own territory.